1. INTRODUCTION

Wine is a program which allows running Microsoft Windows programs
(including DOS, Windows 3.x, Win32, and Win64 executables) on Unix.
It consists of a program loader which loads and executes a Microsoft
Windows binary, and a library (called Winelib) that implements Windows
API calls using their Unix, X11 or Mac equivalents.  The library may also
be used for porting Windows code into native Unix executables.

Wine is free software, released under the GNU LGPL; see the file
LICENSE for the details.


2. QUICK START

From the top-level directory of the Wine source (which contains this file),
run:

./configure
make

Then either install Wine:

make install

Or run Wine directly from the build directory:

./wine notepad

Run programs as "wine program".  For more information and problem
resolution, read the rest of this file, the Wine man page, and
especially the wealth


3. COMPILATION

To build Wine, do:

./configure
make

This will build the program "wine" and numerous support libraries/binaries.
The program "wine" will load and run Windows executables.
The library "libwine" ("Winelib") can be used to compile and link
Windows source code under Unix.

To see compile configuration options, do ./configure --help.


4. SETUP

Once Wine has been built correctly, you can do "make install"; this
will install the wine executable and libraries, the Wine man page, and
other needed files.

Don't forget to uninstall any conflicting previous Wine installation
first.  Try either "dpkg -r wine" or "rpm -e wine" or "make uninstall"
before installing.


5. RUNNING PROGRAMS

When invoking Wine, you may specify the entire path to the executable,
or a filename only.

For example: to run Notepad:

    wine notepad            (using the search Path as specified in
    wine notepad.exe         the registry to locate the file)

    wine c:\\windows\\notepad.exe      (using DOS filename syntax)

    wine ~/.wine/drive_c/windows/notepad.exe  (using Unix filename syntax)

    wine notepad.exe readme.txt          (calling program with parameters)

Wine is not perfect, so some programs may crash. If that happens you
will get a crash log that you should attach to your report when filing
a bug.


--
Md Delwar Hossain
delwar0cse@gmail.com
